# Qualitative Comments from students

While universities use student feedback to judge the quality of a course and/or teacher (see [this](FAQ-COURSE.md#course-survey-experience-what-why)) about that), in my view, **the best use of such feedback is for the students themselves**! What I mean is that it is very useful for _prospective students_ to know what previous fellow students have said about the course in general and the lecturer. This allows students to set their mind in the right way, judge if a course is suitable for them, plan ahead and prepare, and build accurate expectations. Basically, _would you recommend this course to a friend? If so, for which students would you recommend the course? Would you recommend the lecturer?_

While the university does not release the results to students, I personally disclose them for the above reasons. Here it is for IDM!

**DISCLAIMER:** please note that feedback relates to each edition given, so some things may not apply anymore as the course usually changes from edition to edition (sometimes due to previous valuable feedback!). However, **I hope you find it useful and it gives a sense of what to expect.**

Here we go...

## Responses to the Question: What are the best aspects of this course?

* I have a different way of thinking now
* Reading resources and videos are already provided.
* Sebastians a great teacher. Pretty harsh marker but i'd prefer that than a boring teacher who's lenient.
students are good, class helping each other learn well.
* The best aspect of this course was being different from a typical coding course. Rather than using basic programming practices, I learned a new way of solving problems. This course is a must as it may not have a big market but still may come in handy in the future!
* The course helps us understand a new realm of programming for AI. As the name suggests, (Intelligent Decision Making) is about building the right intuition to approach problems.
* The course is well structured. We started from basics and went all the way to advance level concepts in declarative programming.
* The teacher is really passionate about the subject and works hard to give some exercises to implement the things that we learned in the class
* Use of github classroom is very nice, repos are quite well documented with very little ambiguity on assignments. Assessed items are marked fairly, and discussion of marking again is made easy using github comments - i liked this a lot. The content is demanding but achievable. the two main assignments are both constructed in a way where students can stretch themselves if desired.  unlike a lot of other courses, i feel like what i have learned will stay with me and could potentially be useful in the future.
* I enjoyed learning a completely new style of programming which works in a completely different fashion to what i have previously done
* Sebastian is great at explaining the idea of the knowledges we are taught in the course. The face to face interaction between the students and Sebastian is outstanding, everyone is encouraged to share about their thoughts and ideas during discussion.

* Asp and prolog are really good languages to learn
* He is teaching several advanced programming languages, which appear to be quite valuable, particularly the optimisation techniques that he taught can be utilised in a variety of domains. His teaching techniques are outstanding.
* Interesting and unique coursework, with lots of opportunities to ask questions and gain a deeper understanding of the subject matter.
* One session a week   Student presentations are insightful and educational
* The interaction in class is very good. Professor gave few good examples to understand.
* The Logic Programming and Answer Set Programming paradigms covered in this course are unlike anything I encountered during my undergrad or professional life. It has already helped me to think about problems in new ways, and will be a worthy addition to my skill set.  I enjoyed the presentations from other students, as well as the opportunity to practice my own presentation skills in front of a friendly audience. Spacing these presentations over the duration of the course was also much more effective than cramming them into a single long session, which can feel both rushed for the speakers and draining for the audience.  The weekly workshop exercises are effective knowledge building blocks. I absolutely adore the autograder style self-assessment, where small progress leads to incremental success. It is so motivating and satisfying to see the GitHub build "go green".  With regards to class scheduling, I was surprised to discover that I actually appreciated the 3 hour workshop in the evening. It helped me to balance other commitments, and allowed me to focus and stay organised.  Sebastian is very passionate and deeply knowledgeable about the content, as well as an engaging and effective communicator. Despite being the only assigned teaching staff member for the course, he was extremely responsive on the forums.
* the things are totally different from the previous programming language, which is interesting.
* the way of teaching is very good
* This courses teaches programming paradigms that are not main stream but are very useful.
* Timetabling: one 3-hour class that combines lecture with tutorial
* Unique content delivery



## Responses to the Question: What aspects of this course are in most need of improvement?

* my two criticisms of the course are the slightly ambiguous participation grade, and the lack of content on the mechanics 'behind the scenes' with prolog and asp.  i would prefer to have weekly quizes that are assessed. Also, despite doing many of the tutorials myself, I feel like there would be more motivation to do them if they had some small course weighting added to them - again maybe they do have some participation weighting - but again its ambiguous.  the second improvement suggestion is adding more details on the mechanisms happening behind the scenes with prolog and asp, i.e. how the computer is literally executing the logic. This was done fairly well with prolog and the concepts of backtracking - but could definitely be improved. ASP in particular i feel like i would have benefited from an explanation from the teacher with a slide deck explaining the basic concept with examples.
* Sebastian should work on explaining better, he never gives straight answer, he gives big round explanation for simple yes or no questions that never answer the actual question, its very frustrating. The course should have a tutor maybe to connect with the students better.
* The only problem with this course is the lack of good and simple technical examples because the concept of "Answer Set Programming" is still not that popular and lacks resources. Sebastian is great at teaching and if he could provide videos of his own where examples (other than map-coloring and sudoku) are being explained, it would be a great help. He is a good teacher and his own materials will be better than most!
* This course can have 2 short assignments and 1 big project to better grasp both prolog and ASP concepts.
* Too much content in a short time.
* Would like the lecturer, to mandate the completion of more simple exercises weekly. Right now it's self-driven, would have been better if it was made mandatory.
* This course should be advertised more often to encourage people to join.
* Initially, the course content was overwhelming. As the concepts are quite novel, it was exceptionally difficult to get started and gave me a feeling of inadequacy that took a long time to recover from. I believe the problem stems from the fact that we are given access to reading material and workshop exercises, but then essentially instructed to figure things out for ourselves. I can appreciate that Sebastian's preference towards "production learning" as opposed to "consumption learning" is well-intentioned, with a desire for better student learning outcomes. With that said, I strongly recommend introducing some degree of demonstration into the curriculum, at least in the early stages of the course (the first couple of weeks). I do not suggest this to simply make the course easier, and I genuinely believe you will get more out of your students if you take a more "hand holding" approach to the starter concepts.  There is a lot of assigned reading, more than a student could realistically commit to on a weekly basis. It would be helpful to reflect on what is genuinely required and optional reading, and more clearly delineate to assist students with prioritising the most important content. The students with sufficient capacity and passion will explore all of the content anyway.  The course needs another tutor for a face-to-face workshop of this size. Sebastian has been doing his best to attend to all students during the session, but seems to be spread too thin. It is difficult to obtain assistance during the workshop, and when the opportunity finally arrives the encounter feels rushed. Some students also monopolise these interactions.
* It is becoming more and more common for individuals from diverse educational and professional backgrounds to study AI and implement AI techniques in their specific fields. Consequently, people with various backgrounds are enrolling in AI courses at RMIT. However, the grading system employed in this particular course is quite hard. No partial mark is given for attempted solutions. Moreover, this course offers limited flexibility. Quizzes are administered in every class session, whereas it would have been preferable to have them spaced out over a three-week interval. Although workshops are valuable for learning and skill development, they may pose challenges for full-time students, especially those without a computer science and engineering (CSE) background.
* Mnay things i would say. 1.I know its a masters course, but professor doesn't help us with assignments or give any good tips on it. 2. I feel like professor should consider the weak learners as well when giveing tasks or helping with assignments. 3. Not everyone is an expert at all times, so people should get good help from the professors. 4.The assignment marking system is the worst i would say. Its too unfair, when we work hard for each assingments. The marking scheme or rubric should be a bit lenient.
requires more than expected time to complete the assignments and requires more commitment per week than expected
* The amount of work required to be performed outside of class is significant. More guidance to help solve workshop problems would be appreciated
* There should be a way to gauge our performance in the assignments, a lot of students were shocked when receiving a really bad mark although it appears to be working locally.
too much reading is required. it is hard to balance the time-cost of each course.
too much time need to spent for this course
* Tutorials aren't helpful. You never feel like you have learnt something. Being advised to figure things out yourself without looking up outside material is not helpful. You just feel like you are constantly going up against a brick wall. You could spend hours trying to work out a problem only to find the solution was no where near what you imagined. Why can't they provide actual tutorial material that builds your skills up or extends on foundational knowledge instead of throwing you in the deep end and hoping that you figure it out.   Workshop setting where you can interact with other students is fun. You need to provide markers and access to whiteboards and encourage students to work through problems together. Not the siloed mentality where we each have to figure things out ourselves. What's the point of coming to the classroom for that?  No online recording. If you get sick you get left behind.

